

C code standards

structure start by s_.
typedef start by t_.
union start by u_.
enum’ start by e_.
global start by g_.

Python case var, functions, files and dir

All files with headers - f1

4 tab indent

25 line functions not counting its own brackets

80 column width lines

One instruction per line

Empty line empty - never end or with space or tab

New line after bracket or control structure

, / ; must follow a space

Space between operand

Declarations at start of function and must be separated by empty line

New line only for instruction or control structure

Function can take max 4 param

Function with no arg - void

No more than 5 var / block

Return between ()

Cannot declare structure in .c file

????
• Add a tabulation when declaring a struct, enum or union.
• When declaring a variable of type struct, enum or union, add a single space in the
type.
• Add a tabulation between two parameters of a typedef.
• When declaring a struct, union or enum with a typedef, all rules apply. You must
align the typedef’s name with the struct/union/enum’s name.

Headers ????
• The things allowed in header files are : header inclusions (system or not), declarations,
defines, prototypes and macros.
• All includes (.c or .h) must be at the beginning of the file.
• We’ll protect headers from double inclusions. If the file is ft_foo.h, its bystander
macro is FT_FOO_H.
• Functions’ prototypes must exculively be in .h files.
• Unused header inclusions (.h) are forbidden.


???? Macros
Preprocessor constants (or #define) you create must be used only for associate
literal and constant values.
• All #define created to bypass the norm and/or obfuscate code are forbidden. This
point must be checked by a human.
• You can use macros available in standard libraries, only if those ones are allowed
in the scope of the given project.
• Multiline macros are forbidden.
• Only macros names are uppercase.
• You must indent characters following #if , #ifdef or #ifndef.


NOT ALLOWED
 You’re not allowed to use :
◦ for
◦ do...while
6
The Norm Version 2.0.2
◦ switch
◦ case
◦ goto
• Nested ternary operators such as ‘?’.
• VLAs - Variable Length Arrays.


**single line comments not in functions"

No more that 5 functions






